"When we are practicing the purva of awareness, when that really becomes good, what is the sign?
How do you know that your practice is really good at the purva of awareness?"
He said, "A sign of the realization of the purva of awareness or a sign of fulfillment of the purva
of awareness is removing or releasing all the dualities."
That means we are not caught by the dualities. Purva is in the duality thoughts, almost caking us,
the electrons, every time, particularly there is two emotions, two graspings, every kind of ruff
ling, summarized, good grasping and bad grasping, or healthy grasping and unhealthy grasping, and
healthy grasping is what?
Loving kindness, compassion, joy and appreciation, those are known as good grasping. What are those
also named in the Buddha teaching? Relative truths. Relative truths they are.
What is unhealthy grasping is anger, attachment, grasping, clings, and a combination of their
movements. Why is it named unhealthy? Whenever we have that, it is arising that energy in our
mental state and the channel is the wind.
That individually, our self in shaky and double steps. And when you project that externally, it
brings again similar shaking and uncomfortable and bad vibration, and then it again could bring
bigger as suffering.
Therefore, it is called unhealthiness. And this is what we have to release. We have to liberate it.
If we are not caught by the negative emotions, as we said in the Jyotji teaching, when you
liberated that,
where? To the dharma, that or within the space of the awareness. Where it comes from? It is the
space of awareness, or rupa, that awareness of rupa. It came from rupa, it is lingering in the rupa
status or awareness status.
You transcend that into rupa status. It has no any obstacles, no effort at all. What the great
master used example, as entering the rubble in the empty house.
In empty house, rubble entered. There is nothing to lose, nothing to gain, can and gone, or blowing
the wind in the empty house or rooms. Like that.
If we are able to liberate it, it has no effect at all. Not only on the negative level, but it has
great positive energy when you liberate it.
You activate it, you restenstain it, you understand the realisation. At the same time, we have
purified the habitus, that much.
We have purified it. We are cleansing it. We remove the obscurations. That is how the practice does
. Do continue. Liberty. That is the one.
But so here, see, all the duality conceptions are liberated within the state of the true natural in
the dharma dhatu or that awareness status.
When you have that, a capability. Our awareness of rupa is working. Rupa is working, you are really
, or we are good practitioners. You are practicing.
Now, if we continue to practice that, the preview will bring more perfect and perfect. Practice
makes perfect. Practice will continually make perfect and perfect and good.
If so, however, if we couldn't succeed that realisation of the awareness of rupa, what is the
teaching said here? Here is it.
See, then delusion is continued. There is nothing that stops. It is continuous.
The air torque, then, restain it, reactivate it, gain the confidence on the root of the profile of
the awareness, and be in that status.
To bring those all realisation and token there, as he said yesterday, again, great master, he is
only doing it with highlighted.
Those four trainings of the mind, all four, renounce as your thoughts. Then devotion. Second is
devotion.
Devotion to the lineage, devotion to the teaching, to the lineage, and to teacher, to yourself.
All teaching is precious. What is devotion? Devotion is the combination of joy, appreciation, and
confidence.
You should feel great joy in them. I happen to hear you.
With all the devotions, actually in the teaching centre, with all the devotion, relaxation won't
drown.
I said so many times to you, and you all know, it is not just something I am talking new things.
I am just reminding you to ask us.
For that reason, Vadakshaktamuni said it so many times.
Study is good, contemplation is good, but when it comes to the practice,
it led to bring the realisation of the meditation, the practices, devotion is the instrumentals.
Read life through all those great masters.
For example, with the devotions, when you have the devotions, there is not particularly really
something facing needed.
Simple movement, simple gesture, looks so mundane, but it breaks completely, bursts up the real
isation,
immediately, or it opens the window of the realisation, instantly, exactly as it is.
This, for example, during the Buddha's time, all those great arahas, one after another,
they got the realisation because of their devotions.
Devotions, and of course, perfect teachers such as Buddha, and perfect disciples as those great a
rahas,
and the timing is perfect, their devotion is so strong, and therefore, it bursts up that instant
realisation.
For example, in the teachings, Shari Potarvani came.
Shari Potarvani was one of the great thinkers, great learned masters before he met Buddha.
Buddha, he was very familiar, he had more than five students, five, so many, five hundred students.
His teaching, knowledge, all the ancient cultures, he knows so many things,
but still he can feel he is missing something, really not completely satisfied.
He left to search, spiritually search, actively.
But when he met the Buddha, far distance, in a way, not far, but not too close, far distance,
and Shari Potarvani pronounced it loudly when he saw our joy in the happy.
He pronounced it, said, said, said, "You are my teacher, teacher."
And then Buddha extended his right arm, "Yes, Shari Potarvani, come to me."
When Buddha said, "Yes, yes, Shari Potarvani, come to me," that word completely broke the shell of
the dualities.
He become instantly our others in the teachings, instantly our others.
At that moment, remove all the obscurations, dualities become our others.
Then similarly, Mahakajyapas, also similarly, Mahakajyapas.
I mean, Mahakajyapas was one of the great that time.
Of course, he was very learned, but one of the richest person or son in the family,
or in India that time, according to the teachings, so rich, so rich, the family.
But at the end, he liked to follow the Buddha.
So Buddha was known as the Boman Chauting, Stupa Veda, the Stupa Veda,
in India somewhere, in the eastern central India somewhere, Boman Chauting.
But the Buddha was sitting there with many disciples.
Mahakajyapas came again, far away, and closed toward him.
And when he can hear each other's, "Oh great teacher, you are my teacher," he said, again.
And Buddha said, "Yes, I am your teacher."
That word, that's the exchanging word, word, completely Mahakajyapas become our other states.
He didn't got to realize the same as Hariputta.
These are just examples of that.
Examples, all those great ahadas, one after another, they are all achieved because of their dev
otions.
And for that reason, Buddha Shakyamali said in the teaching,
"Oh, Hariputta, realization must come through the devotions."
Devotions.
Buddha is a great thinker.
Buddha is a great analytics, analytics, and analytics.
He is the super-duper analytic person, according to his story, truly.
That is not just a believing, believing.
But when you come to the realization, you have to have the devotions.
That only settles in the heart.
That's only merged heart.
Otherwise, it's like bubbles in the brain.
It's just a moving cloud in the space.
It's not really observed.
Then read the life story of the great Master Thilop, for example.
I said so many times, and K.G. Ramonji said so many times,
but Master Thilop was one of the great,
Surya Master Naropa is one of the great scholars in that time,
or in the whole time, one of the greatest scholars, antileptists.
But again, that's not enough to get the realization.
Knowing Buddha's teaching in Thile is very special and beautiful.
It's very benefited.
But really, realization, when I like to make the teaching,
you have to have devotions.
In contact with his Master Thilop,
for so many years, with so many hardships,
there were always like twenty-four big hardships
and twenty-four small hardships.
He went through that.
But during those times, his devotion and confidence
and appreciation to his Master Thilop was never lingering,
never wavering.
Wavering, he continued.
Pine about what is what he received.
Thilop banged with his pants, with his slippers.
Slippers.
And he felt unconsciousness.
When he woke up from that unconsciousness,
he got everything.
It looks like a building sky, morning sun shines.
His medicine.
He became the great Master Narapas.
So this is one after another.
It's just all this.
And then I will tell one story again.
Stories, this is again paparumujis,
great Master paparumujis.
We heard so many times.
And he has, of course, so many students.
So many students.
One of the students is known as Jyotir Lumto.
Lumto is very famous.
He was the root teacher of the kyempo makchung.
The reason they published a beautiful life story
of the magic of dance, I think.
Dance with it.
He was one of the great Masters.
Jyotir Lumto and the kyempo makchung.
Kyempo makchung is in a teaching set,
or many great Masters set.
He is the emanation of Vimalamathas.
Vimalamathara promised that when he came,
he promised to cancel that thing.
And his students, "I will come every 100 years
to re-correct and re-stand the Doki teachings."
Doki teachings.
And that is also Master paparumujis set
to Jyotir Lumto,
which is one of his foremost disciples.
He said, "A cold and the calculation," he said,
"A cold and the calculation is about to come,
the emanation of Vimalamathara,
but I don't see the emanation of Vimalamathara.
Maybe you will see the emanation of Vimalamathas,
great Master Vimalamathas."
So as his kind of like that mad statement
or kind of presumption, what's called this kind of like,
not sure, but it's just he made that statement,
then accorded it, I mean not accorded it,
then the kyempo makchung was born,
me paparumuj, great Master paparumujis
entered Mahapara in Iran.
So kyempo makchung was really renowned
as the emanation of Vimalamathas.
So but anyway, I'm talking about the paparumujis
and he's one of the foremost disciples of Jyotir Lumto.
Jyotir Lumto been as a student for many years,
so many years in the teaching said, "I'm never over 20 years."
And during that time, I mean he's very old
and he's also vast expert knowledge,
all the teachings and all that.
And one time, and then he has such a strong devotion,
of course, to the Master paparumujis all the time.
He becomes a personal attendant to the paparumujis.
And then one time in the nighttime,
many times paparumujis, of course,
they all stay in hermitage in the remote areas.
And paparumujis, many times in the teaching said,
he lay down on the nighttime,
and lay down on the ground and looking to the sky,
as known as the beretari on the skies,
or the three sky practices,
or three spacious practices, beretari.
So his paparumujis are doing that, doing that.
At that time, also, new few Lumto was there, came there.
At that time, what paparumujis said,
he said, "Come here with me, lay down here."
"Here, you always make it very difficult to recognize
the nature of the mind, lay down here."
And when they lay down,
both are laying down, looking to the sky,
and the stars are getting there.
Then the paparumujis said,
"Can you hear the noise of the drop from Zoki Monastery?
Can you see the sky and the stars?"
We master paparumujis said that.
That simple, ordinary world,
the great new few Lumto,
woke up and said, "That moment, he really got the realization, completely."
Before, there were so many teachings, all that,
but it's very difficult to get the realization,
but that moment, he completely woke up his realization,
completely clear, brilliant sky,
dawned in his heart and mind.
So realization is, we have the devotion,
the strong, realization comes.
Of course, what do you understand in knowledge,
all that really built up,
all that built up, that energy,
it's come to build up.
But finally, to push up that, it's simple, those hopes.
This is also another story by the great Master Mohoramud, for example.
Mohoramudji is one of the great masters in all Buddhist history
and scholarship, great scholars.
But his root teacher was first, he gets great in chancing,
great in chancing.
Bhema Osam Dhamalama is one of the very, again,
famous master in all time.
Many times in the teaching in history,
all those great masters, you see,
Bhema Osam Dhamalama, the first in chancing,
post-Kundra, they involved this entirely Buddhist teaching
and all the masters.
Really, you see, it's just so wonderful, so amazing.
So when you read a life story, when you heard the story,
they're not too far away, about a hundred years ago,
a little over a hundred years ago, whatever.
When you heard the story, it's just, "Wow, how that is."
But yet, how they're humble, how they're simple,
how they have the devotion and respect to each other and all the beings,
that is just amazing.
But however, again, it's first, chancing, chancing.
So a student, and one time, I'm sure many times Maharan would met him,
but one time, they're discussing about the practices.
One time, Master Chintze, Granny Chintze asked Maharan,
"How is your practice coming, or meditations coming?"
And he said, Maharan would answer,
"Yes, I'm really trying to do the very best.
I've ever recited mantras, meditations, every time I make kind of very disciplined
and very kind of like to make strong,
so I'm making really big effort and practice in that."
And then, when his Maharan would say that, and Master Granny Chintze would say,
"Oh, that's good, that's good."
But I, in the lung team, was teaching.
The lung team was teaching, "Relax, and be as it is."
They said that in the teaching, and I did that.
I did that by doing that.
I completely realized it exactly with nature as it is.
So he kind of casually said that.
That becomes the big, waking God, God, to Maharan would teach himself.
In exactly the same way, practices then actualize.
Again, because of the power of devotion,
and all his practice and meditation are built up,
that realization and point is open the shell.
It opens the sky windows.
Completely that.
So those are really there.
So therefore, devotion is very important really for training the mind
and both each other and the affection and the loving kindness
to the Sangha members.
Then the brother and sister of the Sangha members,
those are the poor treasure and wealth of the practitioners as he said.